Add documentation about changing cluster node hostname (#1180)
scality/metalk8s: docs/changenodehostname.rst

> Change the hostname of a cluster node

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Changing the hostname of a MetalK8s node
```

Author: Done

=====================================

> On the node

Reviewer: `s/on/from` ?

^^^^^^^^^^^

Change the hostname:

.. code-block:: shell

>         $ hostnamectl set-hostname <your hostname, here: ControlPlane2>

Reviewer: A code block's body should be indented by 3 characters only (so the contents line up with the `code-block` directive)

        $ systemctl restart systemd-hostnamed

Check that the hostname has changed

.. code-block:: shell

>         $ hostnamectl status

Reviewer: Ditto code block

        Static hostname: controlplane2
        Pretty hostname: ControlPlane2
          Icon name: computer-vm
           Chassis: vm
        Machine ID: 5003025f93c1a84914ea5ae66519c100
           Boot ID: f28d5c64f06c48a3a775e24c4f03d00c
           Virtualization: kvm
        Oerating System: CentOS Linux 7 (Core)
           CPE OS Name: cpe:/o:centos:centos:7
               Kernel: Linux 3.10.0-957.12.2.el7.x86_64
           Architecture: x86-64

> On the bootstrap node

Reviewer: `s/on/from` ?

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Verify the hostname change allowed a change of status on the bootstrap,
the node has now a status ``NotReady``.

.. code-block:: shell

   $ kubectl get nodes

>    node2.novalocal    NotReady   etcd,master                   19h       v1.11.7

Reviewer: Missing the header here (i.e. `NAME  STATUS  ROLES  AGE  VERSION`)

> Change the name of the node in the YAML file used to created it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Change the name of the node in its manifest file.
```

.. code-block:: yaml

   apiVersion: v1
   kind: Node
   metadata:
     name: <NEW HOSTNAME>
     annotations:
       metalk8s.scality.com/ssh-key-path: /etc/metalk8s/pki/id_rsa

>        metalk8s.scality.com/ssh-host: <IP Address>

Reviewer: IP shouldnt be a variable, so let's pick a random one

       metalk8s.scality.com/ssh-sudo: 'false'
     labels:
       metalk8s.scality.com/version: '2.0'
       node-role.kubernetes.io/master: ''
       node-role.kubernetes.io/etcd: ''
   spec:
     taints:
     - effect: NoSchedule
       key: node-role.kubernetes.io/master
     - effect: NoSchedule
       key: node-role.kubernetes.io/etcd

Then apply the configuration:

.. code-block:: shell

   $ kubectl apply -f new-node-master3.yaml

> Delete the old node (here ``node2.novalocal``):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Delete the previous definition of the node (here ``node2.novalocal``) in Kubernetes:
```

.. code-block:: shell

   $ kubectl delete node node2.novalocal

> Log on the salt master:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Obtain a shell into the Salt master container:
```

.. code-block:: shell

   $ kubectl -it -n kube-system exec salt-master-master.novalocal bash

> Then:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Execute the node deployment procedure with the node's new name:
```

.. code-block:: shell

   $ salt-run state.orchestrate metalk8s.orchestrate.deploy_node saltenv=metalk8s-2.0 pillar="{'orchestrate': {'node_name': 'controlplane2'}}"

>            Summary for master.novalocal_master

Reviewer: Ditto code block

           -------------
           Succeeded: 11 (changed=9)
           Failed:     0
           -------------
           Total states run:     11
           Total run time:  132.435 s

> On the Control Plane node delete the certificates:

Reviewer: Not sure I understand this as is. Do you mean the following?

> If the node on which the operation is done is a control-plane node, delete the certificates:

Reviewer 2: No, that's just about re-creating certificates for the changed node:

```suggestion
On the updated node, delete the now invalid certificates:
```

Author: I just checked ! the certificate have been to be deleted on the controlPlane (the controlplane you just change the hostname), so not on the bootstrap !

Author: (didn't reload my page before to comment... agree with @gdemonet )

Changing the hostname of a cluster node
=======================================

From the target node
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Change the hostname:

.. code-block:: shell

   [node]$ hostnamectl set-hostname <your hostname, here: ControlPlane2>
   [node]$ systemctl restart systemd-hostnamed

Check that the hostname has changed

.. code-block:: shell

   [node]$ hostnamectl status

   Static hostname: controlplane2
   Pretty hostname: ControlPlane2
     Icon name: computer-vm
      Chassis: vm
   Machine ID: 5003025f93c1a84914ea5ae66519c100
      Boot ID: f28d5c64f06c48a3a775e24c4f03d00c
      Virtualization: kvm
   Oerating System: CentOS Linux 7 (Core)
      CPE OS Name: cpe:/o:centos:centos:7
          Kernel: Linux 3.10.0-957.12.2.el7.x86_64
      Architecture: x86-64

From the bootstrap node
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Verify the hostname change allowed a change of status on the bootstrap,
the node has now a status ``NotReady``.

.. code-block:: shell

   [bootstrap]$ kubectl get nodes
   NAME               STATUS     ROLES                         AGE       VERSION
   node2.novalocal    NotReady   etcd,master                   19h       v1.11.7

> Change the name of the node in its manifest file:

Reviewer 2: Would be achievable in a single step with `kubectl edit node node2.novalocal`

Reviewer 2: Won't work actually, can't edit a node name.

       metalk8s.scality.com/ssh-sudo: 'false'
     labels:
       metalk8s.scality.com/version: '2.0'
       node-role.kubernetes.io/master: ''
       node-role.kubernetes.io/etcd: ''
   spec:
     taints:
     - effect: NoSchedule
       key: node-role.kubernetes.io/master
     - effect: NoSchedule
       key: node-role.kubernetes.io/etcd

Then apply the configuration:

.. code-block:: shell

   [bootstrap]$ kubectl apply -f new-node-master3.yaml

Delete the previous definition of the node (here ``node2.novalocal``)
in Kubernetes:

.. code-block:: shell

   [bootstrap]$ kubectl delete node node2.novalocal

Obtain a shell into the Salt master container:

.. code-block:: shell

   [bootstrap]$ kubectl -it -n kube-system exec salt-master-master.novalocal bash

Execute the node deployment procedure with the node's new name:

.. code-block:: shell

   [salt-master]$ salt-run state.orchestrate metalk8s.orchestrate.deploy_node saltenv=metalk8s-2.0 pillar="{'orchestrate': {'node_name': 'controlplane2'}}"

   Summary for master.novalocal_master
   -------------
   Succeeded: 11 (changed=9)
   Failed:     0
   -------------
   Total states run:     11
   Total run time:  132.435 s

> On the updated node, delete the now invalid certificates:

Reviewer 2: This needs to be done before re-deployment

.. code-block:: shell

   [bootstrap]$ rm -f /var/lib/kubelet/pki/*.pem

> Then restart the kubelet service:

Reviewer 2: This will (or should, at least) be done by Salt when you re-generate the certificates

.. code-block:: shell

>    [bootstrap]$ systemctl restart kubelet

Reviewer 2: (not related to this line)

@NicolasT also mentioned (e-mail) that we should remove the previous minion key from the master (before deployment as well would be good)
